Added Postgres replication verified sources docs (#1510)
dlt-hub/dlt: docs/website/docs/dlt-ecosystem/verified-sources/pg_replication.md

2. `WITH LOGIN REPLICATION;` does not work on RDS, instead do:
    
    ```sql
    GRANT rds_replication TO replication_user;
    ```
    
3. Do not fallback to non-SSL connection by setting connection parameters:
    
   ```toml
   sources.pg_replication.credentials="postgresql://loader:password@host.rds.amazonaws.com:5432/dlt_data?sslmode=require&connect_timeout=300"
   ```
### Initialize the verified source

To get started with your data pipeline, follow these steps:

1. Enter the following command:
    
   ```sh
   dlt init pg_replication duckdb
   ```
    
   It will initialize [the pipeline example](https://github.com/dlt-hub/verified-sources/blob/master/sources/pg_replication_pipeline.py) with a Postgres replication as the [source](https://dlthub.com/docs/general-usage/source) and [DuckDB](https://dlthub.com/docs/dlt-ecosystem/destinations/duckdb) as the [destination](https://dlthub.com/docs/dlt-ecosystem/destinations).
    
    
2. If you'd like to use a different destination, simply replace `duckdb` with the name of your preferred [destination](https://dlthub.com/docs/dlt-ecosystem/destinations).
    

> 3. This source uses `sql_database` source, you can init it as follows:

Reviewer: I narrowed down the dependency on `sql_database` in https://github.com/dlt-hub/verified-sources/pull/506. It's now only needed if a user does an initial load, i.e. when `persist_snaphots` is set to `True`. Good to mention that here.

Author: updated

    
   ```sh
   dlt init sql_database duckdb
   ```
    
4. After running these two commands, a new directory will be created with the necessary files and configuration settings to get started.
   
   
   For more information, read the guide on [how to add a verified source](https://dlthub.com/docs/walkthroughs/add-a-verified-source).

   :::note
   You can omit the `[sql.sources.credentials]` section in `secrets.toml` as it is not required.
   :::

### Add credentials

1. In the `.dlt` folder, there's a file called `secrets.toml`. It's where you store sensitive information securely, like access tokens. Keep this file safe.
    
   Here's what the `secrets.toml` looks like:
    
   ```toml
   [sources.pg_replication.credentials]

>    drivername = "drivername" # please set me up!

Reviewer: `drivername` is always `postgresql` here. Good to mention so the user doesn't have to guess.

Author: mentioned

   database = "database" # please set me up!
   password = "password" # please set me up!
   username = "username" # please set me up!
   host = "host" # please set me up!
   port = 0 # please set me up! 
   ```
    
2. Credentials can be set as shown above. Alternatively, you can provide credentials in the `secrets.toml` file as follows:
    
   ```toml

>    sources.pg_replication.credentials="drivername://username@password.host:port/database"

Author: mentioned drivername

   ```

3. Finally, follow the instructions in [Destinations](https://dlthub.com/docs/dlt-ecosystem/destinations/) to add credentials for your chosen destination. This will ensure that your data is properly routed.

> For more information, read the [General Usage: Credentials.](https://dlthub.com/docs/general-usage/credentials)

Reviewer 2: we don;t have General Usage section anymore, replace it only with `Configuration`

Author: updated

## Run the pipeline

1. Before running the pipeline, ensure that you have installed all the necessary dependencies by running the command:
   ```sh
   pip install -r requirements.txt
   ```
2. You're now ready to run the pipeline! To get started, run the following command:
   ```sh
   python pg_replication_pipeline.py
   ```
3. Once the pipeline has finished running, you can verify that everything loaded correctly by using the following command:
   ```sh
   dlt pipeline <pipeline_name> show
   ```
   For example, the `pipeline_name` for the above pipeline example is `pg_replication_pipeline`, you may also use any custom name instead.

   For more information, read the guide on [how to run a pipeline](https://dlthub.com/docs/walkthroughs/run-a-pipeline).
    

## Sources and resources

`dlt` works on the principle of [sources](https://dlthub.com/docs/general-usage/source) and [resources](https://dlthub.com/docs/general-usage/resource).

> ### Resource `replication_resource`

Author: Let it be here. It's the standard format for VFS. I will update you. At present, I don't know of any method to get this directly from code.

> ### Resource `replication_resource`

Reviewer 2: we have it in backlog, maybe one day ;D

This resource yields data items for changes in one or more Postgres tables.

```py
@dlt.resource(
    name=lambda args: args["slot_name"] + "_" + args["pub_name"],
    standalone=True,
)
def replication_resource(
    slot_name: str,
    pub_name: str,
    credentials: ConnectionStringCredentials = dlt.secrets.value,
    include_columns: Optional[Dict[str, Sequence[str]]] = None,
    columns: Optional[Dict[str, TTableSchemaColumns]] = None,
    target_batch_size: int = 1000,
    flush_slot: bool = True,
) -> Iterable[Union[TDataItem, DataItemWithMeta]]:
    ...
```

> `slot_name`: Replication slot name to consume messages.

Reviewer 2: add extra empty line here
![Screenshot 2024-06-25 at 15 34 54](https://github.com/dlt-hub/dlt/assets/20367975/e352001d-4970-4665-b1c9-b769032a1157)

Author: added

`pub_name`: Publication slot name to publish messages.

`include_columns`: Maps table name(s) to sequence of names of columns to include in the generated data items. Any column not in the sequence is excluded. If not provided, all columns are included

`columns`:  Maps table name(s) to column hints to apply on the replicated table(s)

`target_batch_size`: Desired number of data items yielded in a batch. Can be used to limit the data items in memory.

`flush_slot`:  Whether processed messages are discarded from the replication slot. The recommended value is "True".

## Customization

If you wish to create your own pipelines, you can leverage source and resource methods from this verified source.

> 1. Define the source pipeline as:

Reviewer: It's good to mention here that the source pipeline is probably only relevant when trying out the source. For production use cases, there will likely be another process mutating the Postgres database, and the user only needs to define a destination pipeline.

Author: added note

    
   ```py
   # Defining source pipeline
   src_pl = dlt.pipeline(
       pipeline_name="source_pipeline",
       destination="postgres",
       dataset_name="source_dataset",
       dev_mode=True,
   )
   ```
    
   :::note 
   You can configure and use the `get_postgres_pipeline()` function available in the `pg_replication_pipeline.py` file to achieve the same functionality. 
   :::
    
2. Similarly, define the destination pipeline.
    
   ```py
   dest_pl = dlt.pipeline(
       pipeline_name="pg_replication_pipeline",
       destination='duckdb',
       dataset_name="replicate_single_table",
       dev_mode=True,
   )
   ```
    
3. Define the slot and publication names as:
    
   ```py
   slot_name = "example_slot"
   pub_name = "example_pub"
   ```
    
4. For the initial replication of the table to the destination, use the `init_replication` function:
    
   ```py
   # requires the Postgres user to have the REPLICATION attribute assigned

>    initial_load = init_replication(  

Reviewer: This is confusing. This is not doing an initial load. Initial loading requires setting `persist_snapshots` to `True`. See `replicate_with_initial_load()` in `pg_replication_pipeline.py`.

`init_replication` is short for "initialize replication", not "initial replication". A user can use this function to let `dlt` configure Postgres and make it ready for replication. Alternatively, a user can also do this outside of `dlt`. Using `init_replication` does not automatically mean you're doing an initial load.

Author: added some more contest

    
    ```sql
    GRANT rds_replication TO replication_user;
    ```
    
3. Do not fallback to non-SSL connection by setting connection parameters:
    
   ```toml
   sources.pg_replication.credentials="postgresql://loader:password@host.rds.amazonaws.com:5432/dlt_data?sslmode=require&connect_timeout=300"
   ```
### Initialize the verified source

To get started with your data pipeline, follow these steps:

1. Enter the following command:
    
   ```sh
   dlt init pg_replication duckdb
   ```
    
   It will initialize [the pipeline example](https://github.com/dlt-hub/verified-sources/blob/master/sources/pg_replication_pipeline.py) with a Postgres replication as the [source](https://dlthub.com/docs/general-usage/source) and [DuckDB](https://dlthub.com/docs/dlt-ecosystem/destinations/duckdb) as the [destination](https://dlthub.com/docs/dlt-ecosystem/destinations).
    
    
2. If you'd like to use a different destination, simply replace `duckdb` with the name of your preferred [destination](https://dlthub.com/docs/dlt-ecosystem/destinations).
    
3. This source uses `sql_database` source, you can init it as follows:
    
   ```sh
   dlt init sql_database duckdb
   ```

>    > It is important to note that this is only needed when a user needs to pass `persist_snaphots=True` for inital load.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   :::note
   It is important to note that It is now only required if a user performs an initial load, specifically when `persist_snapshots` is set to `True`.
   :::
```

    ...
```

`slot_name`: Replication slot name to consume messages.

`pub_name`: Publication slot name to publish messages.

`include_columns`: Maps table name(s) to sequence of names of columns to include in the generated data items. Any column not in the sequence is excluded. If not provided, all columns are included

`columns`:  Maps table name(s) to column hints to apply on the replicated table(s)

`target_batch_size`: Desired number of data items yielded in a batch. Can be used to limit the data items in memory.

`flush_slot`:  Whether processed messages are discarded from the replication slot. The recommended value is "True".

## Customization

If you wish to create your own pipelines, you can leverage source and resource methods from this verified source.

1. Define the source pipeline as:
    
   ```py
   # Defining source pipeline
   src_pl = dlt.pipeline(
       pipeline_name="source_pipeline",
       destination="postgres",
       dataset_name="source_dataset",
       dev_mode=True,
   )
   ```

   You can configure and use the `get_postgres_pipeline()` function available in the `pg_replication_pipeline.py` file to achieve the same functionality. 

   :::note IMPORTANT

>    The source pipeline is mainly for testing and development. In production, another process will likely be mutating 
>    the Postgres database.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    When working with large datasets from a Postgres database, it's important to consider the relevance of the source pipeline. For testing purposes, using the source pipeline can be beneficial to try out the data flow. However, in production use cases, there will likely be another process that mutates the Postgres database. In such cases, the user generally only needs to define a destination pipeline.
```
